X-Sympa-To: bioinfo@impg.prd.fr
Return-Path: <sympa@sfbi.fr>
X-Original-To: bioinfo@sfbi.fr
Delivered-To: bioinfo@localhost
Received: by asso.crihan.fr (Postfix, from userid 203)
	id 1C69B26801D; Wed, 26 Mar 2014 07:17:28 +0100 (CET)
To: bioinfo@sfbi.fr
From: gokej@gis.a-star.edu.sg
Message-ID: <sympa.1395800895.23745.587@sfbi.fr>
In-Reply-To: 
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=ISO-8859-1
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 8bit
Date: Wed, 26 Mar 2014 07:17:28 +0100 (CET)
X-Validation-by: laurent.mouchard@univ-rouen.fr
Subject: [bioinfo] Postdoctoral Fellow: Computational Genomics, Stem Cell Genomics

Hi,
The following position is available at the Genome Institute of Singapore.
Best wishes
Jonathan

Job description:

A postdoctoral position in bioinformatics/computational genomics is available at the Genome Institute of Singapore (GIS). The successful candidate will work on a project to compare alternative pluripotent cell states (human embryonic stem cells (hESCs), induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs), 3iL hESCs, naïve hESCs, adult stem cells) using regulatory and transcriptomic data. The candidate will develop methods for comparative analysis of high throughput sequencing data with the aim to identify key events that determine cell state identity and conversion. The initial focus is on epigenetics, enhancers, and noncoding RNAs, but postdocs are encouraged to contribute creative ideas and develop an independent research plan. The successful candidate will join the team of GIS Fellow Jonathan Göke (http://www.gis.a-star.edu.sg/internet/site/investigator/investigator.php?user_id=160). The position is in collaboration with the laboratory of Huck Hui Ng, one of the top stem cell laboratories worldwide.

Requirements: 

Candidates should be enthusiastic about science, have a PhD in computational biology (or related), a solid understanding of probability and statistics, programming experience (R is a plus), a strong publication record and experience in one or more of the following areas: regulatory genomics, transcriptome analysis, splicing analysis, stem cell genomics, DNA sequence analysis, machine learning. A strong interest in molecular biology and good communication skills are required as the successful candidate is expected to closely interact with experimental groups.

Contact Information: 

For inquiries or to apply, please send a cover letter, CV, and names of at least two referees to Jonathan Göke: gokej at gis.a-star.edu.sg.

About the GIS and Singapore: 

The Genome Institute of Singapore (GIS) is the national flagship program for the genomic sciences in Singapore with a focus on the following areas: cancer therapeutics and stratified oncology, stem cell & developmental biology, cancer stem cell biology, infectious diseases, human genetics, genomic technologies, and computational & systems biology. GIS houses over 300 scientists, trainees and staff. Breaking away from traditional boundaries of scientific discipline and institutional organization, the GIS is structured to encourage integration by promoting collaborations and the free exchange of ideas, knowledge and expertise.

Singapore is a city-state with one of the highest standards of living in the world seeking to become an international hub for the biomedical sciences. Singapore is a vibrant, tropical city, with rich Asian heritage and modern style of living, an ideal gateway to explore Asia, providing a unique experience and an excellent quality of life.

-- 
Jonathan GÖKE, PhD
GIS Fellow | Genome Institute of Singapore
gokej@gis.a-star.edu.sg | +65 6808 8128
