X-Sympa-To: bioinfo@impg.prd.fr
Return-Path: <sympa@sfbi.fr>
X-Original-To: bioinfo@sfbi.fr
Delivered-To: bioinfo@localhost
Received: by asso.crihan.fr (Postfix, from userid 203)
	id F048D26801D; Mon, 22 Dec 2014 11:48:45 +0100 (CET)
To: bioinfo@sfbi.fr
From: Gras <latreides@gmail.com>
Message-ID: <sympa.1419243980.13793.86@sfbi.fr>
In-Reply-To: 
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=ISO-8859-1
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 8bit
Date: Mon, 22 Dec 2014 11:48:45 +0100 (CET)
X-Validation-by: laurent.mouchard@univ-rouen.fr
Subject: [bioinfo] Summer School in Bioinformatics - Angers - july 2015

SUMMER SCHOOL IN BIOINFORMATICS
http://summerschools.univ-angers.fr/en/index/schools/bioinformatics.html

June 29 - July 10 2015, Angers France

Coordinators: Dr. Jérémie BOURDON, Dr. Frédéric LARDEUX


OBJECTIVES

  Dealing with big data and big models in biology: current challenges in bioinformatics

  Bioinformatics is an exciting new area of interdisciplinary science.

  The future of many biological and medical studies promotes smart use of computational tools as an essential knowledge in scientists background.The program developed in this summer school aims at bringing students the ability to conduct ambitious biological studies from big data analysis to extract relevant biomarkers to large scale models engineering in order to enhance biological production. Topics to be covered include different fields of bioinformatics: data processing of genomic data, optimization methods in systems biology, statistics and classification for biomarker extraction, meta-genomics and a few more. Focus is also made on valorization concerns. Workshops and visits of institutes in bioinformatics facilities are of course included.


Summer School PROGRAM

Workshops:
  Visits of international research institutes

  - Bioinformatics platforms, University of Nantes

  The program relies on interactive classes and hands-on ativities. Several workshops are organized, among them:
  - "Creating a locus-specific database"
  - "Analysis of a metabolic network"

Sessions:
  Plenary conference (the speaker will be announced soon)

  - Warm up session : Informatics for beginners 
  - Session 1: Statistics and classification for genomic studies                
  - Session 2: Clinicobiological Databases in genetics 
  - Session 3: Applications and Pipelines “Next generation sequencing” (NGS) in genetics and genomics
  - Session 4: Visit of Biogenouest Bioinformatics core facilities 
  - Session 5: Bioinformatics and Business companies
  - Session 6: Microbial metagenomics
  - Session 7: Mapping, Structural note and NGS Data management
  - Session 8: Optimization methods for bioinformatics
  - Session 9: Computer modeling of living systems: a guided tour to synthetic biology


ADMISSION

Criteria
  This program is ideal for those wishing to develop advanced skills in bioinformatics. Prior experience in computer science and computer programming is not required.
  This summer school is aimed at undergraduate students from 3th year to Ph.D. in biological sciences / medicine / pharmacy / informatics / engineering or other scientific background. 
 
Application deadline
  Application deadline: April 15th 2015
  Final answer about your selection: May 1st 2015
  Registration and payment deadline: May 15th 2015
 
Registration fees: 700 Euro
  Fees include tuition, accommodation, lunches, scheduled excursions and extracurricular activities during the course. The Summer Schools do not cover the costs of passports, visas, health insurance, or travel to and from France.
  A certificate of attendance and 6 ECTS will be delivered to the students.


Keynote Speakers
  Intended speakers will be announced soon.


APPLICATION AND REGISTRATION
  To secure your participation, we advise that you apply as soon as possible. 
  The application form can be downloaded from the summer school website:

  http://summerschools.univ-angers.fr/en/index/schools/bioinformatics/admission.html
