X-Sympa-To: bioinfo@impg.prd.fr
Return-Path: <sympa@sfbi.fr>
X-Original-To: bioinfo@sfbi.fr
Delivered-To: bioinfo@localhost
Received: by asso.crihan.fr (Postfix, from userid 203)
	id 032D826801D; Tue, 21 Oct 2014 18:22:19 +0200 (CEST)
To: bioinfo@sfbi.fr
From: perrine.paul@gmail.com
Message-ID: <sympa.1413908386.11445.828@sfbi.fr>
In-Reply-To: 
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=ISO-8859-1
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 8bit
Date: Tue, 21 Oct 2014 18:22:19 +0200 (CEST)
X-Validation-by: laurent.mouchard@univ-rouen.fr
Subject: [bioinfo] First EuBIAS and QBI joint meeting in January in Paris

Two imaging-related meetings are coming in the beginning of January 2015 in Paris. We are looking forward to your participation!

--->EUBIAS 5, 6 of January, Institut Curie, Paris

www.eubias.org/eubias2015

The showcase meeting of EuBIAS aims at promoting the use of state-of-art image processing algorithms by increasing the communication within the image analysis community. Developers from various software packages and libraries are invited for presenting their recent activities and Image analysts and biologists will then be updated with the latest scene of the tool development, and at the same time are expected to provide feedback and to get in direct contact with the developers of the tools that they are using in everyday research. Moreover, we will discuss on the further development of bioimage analysis community.  

Abstract submission deadline: Nov. 1st

Organizers

  Jean Salamero (Institut Curie, Paris)
  Perrine Paul-Gilloteaux (Institut Curie, Paris)
  Julien Colombelli (IRB, Barcelona)
  Sébastien Tosi (IRB, Barcelona)
  Kota Miura (EMBL, Heidelberg)

--->QBI,  7, 8, 9 of January, Institut Pasteur, Paris

www.quantitativebioimaging.com

The Quantitative BioImaging (QBI) 2015 will be the 3rd international conference in this series with focus on the quantitative analysis of bioimaging data in an interdisciplinary manner. It will bring together researchers from engineering, (bio)physics, biology and chemistry who work on quantitative aspects of microscopy.

Organizers:

  Jean-Christophe Olivo-Marin (Institut Pasteur, Paris, France)
  Charles Kervrann (Inria Rennes, Rennes, France)
  Jean Salamero (Institut Curie, Paris)
  Keith A. Lidke (University of New Mexico, USA)
  Raimund J. Ober (Texas A&M University, College Station, USA)
  Bernd Rieger (Delft University of Technology, Netherlands)
  Diane S. Lidke (University of New Mexico, USA)

Both Eubias conference and QBI conference are strongly supported by France Bio Imaging (FBI). Eubias conference is supported by the french microscopy society (sfmu). The complete list of sponsors is available on our websites.
