X-Sympa-To: bioinfo@impg.prd.fr
Return-Path: <sympa@sfbi.fr>
X-Original-To: bioinfo@sfbi.fr
Delivered-To: bioinfo@localhost
Received: by asso.crihan.fr (Postfix, from userid 203)
	id 31BA026801D; Wed,  4 Jun 2014 11:09:04 +0200 (CEST)
To: bioinfo@sfbi.fr
From: Radulescu <ovidiu.radulescu@univ-montp2.fr>
Message-ID: <sympa.1401872734.14793.462@sfbi.fr>
In-Reply-To: 
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=ISO-8859-1
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 8bit
Date: Wed,  4 Jun 2014 11:09:04 +0200 (CEST)
X-Validation-by: jean-christophe.aude@cea.fr
Subject: [bioinfo] postdoc in cancer systems biology in Montpellier

Postdoctoral position in computational systems biology with applications to signaling pathways involved in breast cancer suppression 

A  2-year post-doctoral position in systems biology is offered jointly by the "Biological Physics and Systems Biology" team (O. Radulescu) at the DIMNP CNRS 5235 / University of Montpellier 2 and the "Signaling, Invasion and Cancer" team (P. Coopman) at the Montpellier Cancer Research Institute (IRCM, INSERM U896/ University of Montpellier 1), in the South of France, starting at earliest on October 1st, 2014. 
The post-doctoral fellow will have a PhD. degree in computational systems biology, in computer science, or applied mathematics. Knowledge on cell biology, signaling, logical and/or differential equations modeling will be a benefit. He/she will be involved in data processing, dynamical modeling of signaling networks, large scale formal model reconstruction and analysis. The computational challenge of the project will be to create predictive models of complex signaling crosstalk based on the signaling networks identified using quantitative (phospho)proteomics as well as biochemical and in cellulo/in vivo experimental models. The methodology developed will be used to process a large body of data on signaling via the anti-oncogenic Syk kinase and PTPL1 phosphatase in breast cancer and to elucidate the mechanisms by which these proteins inhibit tumor development and malignant progression. 
Montpellier is offering a unique environment for interdisciplinary and biomedical research, with excellent laboratories and technical facilities working in a tight collaboration and within a close geographical perimeter. The city is ideally situated between the Mediterranean sea and the magnificent landscapes of the Cevennes mountains. 

Applications, including a CV, a motivation letter and the contact information of at least two referees, should be sent by email to Ovidiu Radulescu (ovidiu.radulescu@univ-montp2.fr) with as subject “Cancer systems biology postdoc application’’ before August 31st, 2014. 
