X-Sympa-To: bioinfo@impg.prd.fr
Return-Path: <sympa@sfbi.fr>
X-Original-To: bioinfo@sfbi.fr
Delivered-To: bioinfo@localhost
Received: by asso.crihan.fr (Postfix, from userid 203)
	id 1D3A926801D; Thu, 12 Jun 2014 18:34:36 +0200 (CEST)
To: bioinfo@sfbi.fr
From: lisa.perchenet@modisfrance.fr
Message-ID: <sympa.1402590842.20356.432@sfbi.fr>
In-Reply-To: 
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=ISO-8859-1
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 8bit
Date: Thu, 12 Jun 2014 18:34:36 +0200 (CEST)
X-Validation-by: laurent.mouchard@univ-rouen.fr
Subject: [bioinfo] OPPORTUNITE DE CARRIERE - ONTOLOGY - MODIS

MODIS société internationale réalise un CA de 2,4 milliard d’euros en 2012.
Sa présence dans de nombreux pays (Etats-Unis, Angleterre, Australie, Canada, 
France, Belgique, Pays-Bas, Pologne) lui permet d’assurer une couverture 
géographique mondiale.
En France, MODIS fait partie des 30 premières Sociétés de Service en 
Ingénierie Numérique. Elle s’appuie sur un réseau de 7 agences. Ses 1600 
collaborateurs apportent des solutions à ses clients issus de la 
Banque/Finance, l’Assurance, la Distribution, les Télécoms, l’Industrie, le 
Services & l’Energie. Ils interviennent en conseil, ingénierie applicative, 
support et management des infrastructures.

We are looking for a partner to work with in order to significantly expand 
the existing ontology and maintain it on the long run. The partner will be in 
charge of extending and maintaining the ontological model by designing new 
concepts and consequently providing set of classes and relations type to be 
imported in this model. To perform those extensions, the consultant will 
interact with different scientific experts in various scientific domains such 
as: Pharmacology, Toxicology, DMPK, molecular and cellular biology, 
bio-informatics, omics and translational. The consultant will also train and 
coach an internal resource who will be in charge of: collecting data to be 
able to start modeling exercise and maintaining the ontology on a everyday 
basis by mainly creating and maintaining instances in our ontology hosted on 
the solution Ontobroker from Semafora.

Main tasks to fulfill are the following:
Phase 1 (initialisation):
- Review our existing Ontology
The company has on-going initiative to capture all assay parameters currently 
in used in order to have them defined in the ontology. You will review 
on-going work and advise the company on the methodology to use to ensure this 
work can be used as a basis to extend the Ontology.
- Assess costs and timelines to deliver extension of ontological model that 
will support all assay parameters identified by the on-going initiative.
- Make recommendations on skills and/or training required for the company 
resource that will be in charge of the everyday maintenance of the ontology.

Phase 2   (Initial extension):
Based on work described in phase 1:
- Produced extended model supporting all identified assay parameters  
- Create in Ontobroker all new classes and relation type supporting model 
extension
- Train the company resources to extended model

Phase 3   (Recurring work):
Update and maintain ontological model on the long run and on a regular basis:
- Produced model extension depending on the company needs and though 
interactions with domain expert (scientist, clinicians, etc…) 
- Create in Ontobroker all new classes and relation type supporting model 
extensions
Support internal resource in charge of every day maintenance

Planning:
Requested deliverables for Phase 1:     
- Guidelines document describing which information to gather and how
- An implementation plan for phase 2 including estimated costs and timelines 

Requested deliverables for Phase 2 & 3: 
- Ontology concepts and associated classes implemented in our Ontobroker 
Ontology.

Technical competences:
The project requires a mastery of OntoBroker. 

Functional competences:
-       Biology InVivo, InVitro, Drug Safety (Toxicity), Pharmacokinetics and 
drug Metabolism (PK, ADME…), bioMarkers, Bio-informatics, omics and 
translational
-       Ontology concepts and pragmatical deployement
-       Knowledge of pharmaceutical industries
-       English

Project based in Les Ulis (91)

You have experience in R&D IT for pharmaceutical industry. You have good 
knowledge of the research process around the activities of Biology In Vivo, 
In Vitro such as: Pharmacology, Toxicology, DMPK, molecular and cellular 
biology but also in Bioinformatics, omics and translational.
You have evolved to Ontology definitions work and have already led 1 Ontology 
modeling and deployment project. 

